# Software Engineering ≠ Research

Much of what we do at OneChronos is scientific research - not engineering. The distinction is that engineering is the practice of turning specifications into product under a well defined process. Research is an exercise in turning ideas that might or might be possible into engineering tools. Much of what's written on the software development process - planning and estimation in particular - does not apply to research.

Because research inherently focuses on the unknown, estimating the absolute time/cost difficulty of getting to a result doesn't make sense. What does make sense is a relative statement of opportunity cost. By researching __A__, you will not have the time or money to research __B__. A commitment to __C__ for two months will delay an engineering project __D__ by two months; given that the expected value of __D__ is __X__, is __C__ worth it?

When embarking on a new project it's crucial that all stakeholders understand when something is research as opposed to engineering. Engineering teams might field requests for features that aren't doable with the existing tools. Other requests might be best accomplished with research, but achievable with the existing options. Some requests will lead to straightforward exercises in implementation. Communicating what category the request falls into helps with resource planning and avoids scope creep. The worst case scenario is one in which a business stakeholder requests research (without knowing it) for something that's of marginal value.

Building a deep tech company is an exercise in doing enough engineering to keep the company moving in the right direction *now* and enough research to keep growth strong and competitors at bay one, two, five, and ten years from now. OneChronos has a culture of long term thinking, and investing in research is a big part of that. Communication and planning is key to hitting short term and long term goals in a way that maximizes terminal value.
